WebXR Mesh Detection - User Manual (#612)
playcanvas/developer.playcanvas.com: docs/user-manual/xr/ar/mesh-detection.md

---
title: Mesh Detection
sidebar_position: 1
---

> The interaction between the real world and virtual objects is achieved by visual and logical interactions between them. Mesh detection is an API that provides access to the representation of real-world geometry in the form of meshes. Which then can be used variously, e.g.: virtual object physics with real-world environment; path finding; object placement; occlusion; procedural effects, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interaction between real-world and virtual objects is achieved by visual and logical interactions between the two. Mesh detection is an API that provides access to the representation of real-world geometry in the form of meshes. It can be used in a number of ways such as:

* virtual object physics within a real-world environment
* path finding
* object placement
* occlusion
* procedural effects
```

The underlying system can provide pre-captured data as well as provide real-time reconstruction depending on the underlying system implementation.

## Support

```javascript
if (app.xr.meshDetection.supported) {
    // mesh detection is supported
}

app.xr.on('start', () => {
    if (app.xr.meshDetection.available) {
        // mesh detection is available
    }
});
```

## Access

Meshes are added/removed in async:

```javascript
app.xr.meshDetection.on('add', (xrMesh) => {
    // a new XrMesh has been added

    xrMesh.once('remove', () => {
        // an XrMesh has been removed
    });
});
```

Also, the list of XrMesh'es is available:

```javascript
const xrMeshes = app.xr.meshDetection.meshes;
for(let i = 0; i < xrMeshes.length; i++) {
    const xrMesh = xrMeshes[i];
}
```

## Mesh

Each mesh is represented as an instance of XrMesh, which can be added/removed during an active session. It also has data that can be changed during its lifetime.

You can access the position and rotation (world space) of an XrMesh:

```javascript
entity.setPosition(xrMesh.getPosition());
entity.setRotation(xrMesh.getRotation());
```

> Each XrMesh has its vertices and indices (in local space), that can be used to construct visual mesh. An example below creates a visual mesh for each XrMesh and adds it to scene root:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each XrMesh has its vertices and indices (in local-space), that can be used to construct a visual mesh. An example below creates a visual mesh for each XrMesh and adds it to the root of the scene:
```

```javascript
app.xr.meshDetection.on('add', (xrMesh) => {
    // geometry data
    const mesh = new pc.Mesh(app.graphicsDevice);
    mesh.clear(true, true); // ensure that mesh is created with dynamic buffers
    mesh.setPositions(xrMesh.vertices); // set vertices
    mesh.setNormals(pc.calculateNormals(xrMesh.vertices, xrMesh.indices)); // calculate normals
    mesh.setIndices(xrMesh.indices); // set indices
    mesh.update(pc.PRIMITIVE_TRIANGLES); // update buffers

    const material = new pc.StandardMaterial();
    const meshInstance = new pc.MeshInstance(mesh, material);

    const entity = new pc.Entity();

    // add render component
    entity.addComponent('render', {
        meshInstances: [ meshInstance ]
    });

    // add entity to the scene root
    app.root.addChild(entity);

    // clean up after XrMesh is removed
    xrMesh.once('remove', () => {
        material.destroy();
        mesh.destroy();
        entity.destroy();
    });
});
```

## Semantic Label

> XrMesh can represent various real-world objects, and a label can help to identify what it represents using its property `XrMesh.label`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XrMesh can represent various real-world objects and a label can help to identify what it represents using its property `XrMesh.label`.
```

> These labels can be any of: floor, wall, door, window, table, screen, global mesh, other, and more. Here is a [list of semantic labels][1], although this list is not definitive and the platform can report anything it feels fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These labels can be any of: `floor`, `wall`, `door`, `window`, `table`, `screen`, `global mesh`, `other`, and `more`. Here is a [list of semantic labels][1], although this list is not definitive and the platform can report anything it feels fit.
```
